feat(cli): add lb4 update command to check/update project dependencies (#4080)
strongloop/loopback-next: docs/site/Update-generator.md

---
lang: en
title: 'Update generator'
keywords: LoopBack 4.0, LoopBack 4
sidebar: lb4_sidebar
permalink: /doc/en/lb4/Update-generator.html
---

{% include content/generator-create-app.html lang=page.lang %}

### Synopsis

The `lb4 update` command runs against a LoopBack 4 project and checks
dependencies against the installed `@loopback/cli`. By default, it checks for
exact match. Use `--semver` option to check compatibility using semver
semantics.

```sh
lb4 update [options]
```

If the command is run without a LoopBack 4 project, it prints the version of the
current CLI and versions of LoopBack packages that are released with the
`@loopback/cli`. This is the same as `lb4 -v`.

> 

Reviewer: Please explain when and why should users run `lb4 update` instead of `npm update`. I'd like this information to be easy to find, not buried in a pull request discussion.

### Options

`--semver` : _(Optional)_ Use semver semantics to check version compatibility
for project dependencies of LoopBack modules

### Output

The following is a sample output from `lb4 update` against a LoopBack 4 project
generated by older version of CLI:

```

> The project was originally generated by @loopback/cli@<unknown>.

Reviewer: I find the `<unknown>` version suspicious. Is it a temporary thing because the current CLI versions are not writing the version info? Can we print a nicer error message in such case? For example:

```suggestion
The project was originally generated by an older version of @loopback/cli.
```

Also what happens after we run `npm update` and then a new version of `@loopback/cli` is published - are we going to print the CLI version that was used to generate the project or the last CLI version that was executed to update dependencies?

Author: The `unknown` is only there because my very old project does not have such information.

---
lang: en
title: 'Update generator'
keywords: LoopBack 4.0, LoopBack 4
sidebar: lb4_sidebar
permalink: /doc/en/lb4/Update-generator.html
---

{% include content/generator-create-app.html lang=page.lang %}

### Synopsis

The `lb4 update` command runs against a LoopBack 4 project and checks
dependencies against the installed `@loopback/cli`. By default, it checks for
exact match. Use `--semver` option to check compatibility using semver
semantics.

```sh
lb4 update [options]
```

The key benefit of `lb4 update` over `npm update` is that `lb4 update` honors
the collection of compatible LoopBack packages (and their dependencies) that are
released with the current lb4 command from `@loopback/cli`.

If the command is run without a LoopBack 4 project, it prints the version of the
current CLI and versions of LoopBack packages that are released with the
`@loopback/cli`. This is the same as `lb4 -v`.

### Options

`--semver` : _(Optional)_ Use semver semantics to check version compatibility

> for project dependencies of LoopBack modules

Reviewer: I find this little bit puzzling. What does semver semantics mean in this case? What is the default behavior (when the option is not present), how is it different from semver? What criteria can our users apply to decide which mode to choose?

Author: By default, `lb4 update` checks exact match of versions between the project dependencies and the ones from the running cli template. Settting `--semver` relaxes it by semver checks, for example, `^1.0.0` won't be updated as it's compatible with `1.0.1`.

### Output

The following is a sample output from `lb4 update` against a LoopBack 4 project
generated by older version of CLI:

```

> The project was originally generated by @loopback/cli@<1.0.1>.

Reviewer: I'd like you to clarify this point:

What happens after we run `npm update` and then a new version of `@loopback/cli` is published - are we going to print the CLI version that was used to generate the project or the last CLI version that was executed to update dependencies?

For example:

- Project created using `@loopback/cli@<1.0.1>`.
- Later updated by running `@loopback/cli` version `1.2.0`.
- Now I have `@loopback/cli` version `1.3.0` installed and run `lb4 update`.

What will the tool print?

BTW what do the angle brackets around the version mean?
